But you know,
maybe a lot of people you guys know,
but there's a lot of things which is also
new that you would probably see.
So let me.
Share my screen. Once you see my screen,
let me know. We will uh.
Can you see my screen?
Yes.
OK, so basically again,
everyone knows about database. I mean,
I'm not doing something new,
but want to kind of get little bit,
you know, on the side where as you know,
database has been always the backbone and
is going to remain the backbone of any
modern application.
Application whether we are looking at in
terms of directly impacting scalability
and what actually Ashish did help was
that part on certain things, right? So.
Having the right database choice can make
or break the architecture based on the
changes that you're seeing,
you know as we move forward, right?
And choosing it could help in terms of
scalability, which impacts scalability.
Compliance and erformance all.
So the first one that we're talking about
the SQL relational database,
which is the foundation, right?
We have done that and which basically
stores database in rows and columns as we
all know.
It ensures the consistency with ACID
compliance.
What it means is basically all the ACID
transactions are atomicity, consistency,
isolation and durability, right?
And it guarantees the data integrity for
any mission critical applications that we
do.
Of course security is pretty strong
because got RBAC which is role based
access control,
encryption and audit trails, right?
And of course foreign keys and
constraints ensures the data consistency
which is the referential integrity for
across the tables, right?
This is very, very important.
Now if you look at from the examples of
the use cases, banking systems,
if you look at it,
they are very heavily on this because
it's transactional,
transaction safety and regulatory
compliance.
They maintain healthcare for patient
record.
Integrity and HIPAA compliance and ERP
complex business logics. So as you know,
MySQL, Postgres, SQL, Oracle, SQL Server,
you know other gold standard of
structured transactional workloads, right?
OK.
Now the next one also we have used No SQL
Revolution,
which is again a document database,
document database that we call.
It is designed for scalability and
feasibility basically, right?
And it is schema less or you call it
schema light model horizontal scaling
across the clusters.
It's ideal for large scale real time
applications.
Right.
If you look at social media applications
needing, you know, rapid growth,
no SQL would be the ideal choice, right?
e-commerce cataloging and all the stuff
also comes in Mongo DB and Dynamo Dynamo
DB.
Excel, you know they are.
They create those product hierarchy and
all the stuff, right? So that helps.
The next slide and again I'm going a
little fast because I have another
meeting coming up.
So I want to make sure that I go through
all the slides quickly.
High performance data storage which has a
key value stores and the columnar
database right the two different kinds.
Oops, did it? Sharing stopped.
I don't know why it happened
Yeah, this screen should stop. Yeah.
automatically. OK, OK, can you see?
Yes.
Let me know once, OK,
high performance data storage,
a columnar database.
Now what it you know if you look at from
the high value storage point of you know
view what it does is.
It has lightning fast reads,
so if you look at sub millisecond
response times like radius is ideal for
session in a management or real time
caching IoT ingestion.
That can handle millions of sensor writes
per second because that's real-time data
which will position across the clusters.
On the columnar database side,
you'll have the analytics optimization
where the column wise storage and
compression delivers a faster.
Analytical queries and real time insights
like Cassandra or Hbase will have massive
data set and the customer behavior
tracking with the business intelligence
comes handy with that.
If you look at from high performance and
compress compression and indexing,
this would be very very.
Valuable.
OK,
now I'm talking about the specialized
database architecture.
What are those data? One is the graph DB.
Again,
you know probably of are aware Neo4j or
AWS Neptune.
Because they are,
they are good at the relationship heavy
data where you can look at fraud
detection algorithms,
you can focus on great deep insights in
terms of traversals.
Or you're looking at in terms of
recommendations,
influence and all the stuff.
Graph database would be a great database
time series database like Influx DB or
Prometheus.
It optimize for the timestamp data.
It stores the metrics right and events
efficiently as well as use.
It is very useful for monitoring the IoT.
We were just talking about IoT systems,
right?
So server performance and monitoring
becomes very,
very handy with this high frequency
writing and all this stuff.
Now there are a couple of things that are
emerging now in the database site.
One is the object oriented database,
Object DB or Zo DB.
Which basically what it does is is great
for simulations, engineering,
CAD services, you know,
very important spatial database like
Oracle Spatial or Post GIS.
It is more for.
GIS and logistics, mapping applications,
logistics, optimization and planning.
And then the last one actually has a new
SQL revolution, which is on the.
Cockroach DB and Volt DB which combines
the acid guarantees and with horizontal
scalability ideal for global SAS
platforms and it powers.
The you know,
if you look at for SAS applications,
it's you know,
consistent and it can scale massively.
I kind of created a matrix here based on
the primary use cases and weakness like
SQL and relation database type could be
mature for tooling but again limited on.
Horizontal scaling, so ERP, finance,
healthcare could be one and document no
SQL could be, you know,
schema flexible and limited asset
transactions,
so it's good for CMS or e-commerce kind
of thing.
Key value no SQL again, high performance,
simplicity, limited querying capability,
so caching session management could be
one of the graph no SQL relationship
insights traversal it can.
Complex query you know,
optimizations like fraud detection,
social media and you know networks and
all the stuff. New SQL is again,
it's the strength is basically asset plus
horizontal scaling.
And technology still is maturing,
so global says high traffic systems if
you choose,
if we choose the right workload
characteristics,
not just on the technology preference.
I think that's the right way to make a
decision.
If you look at from the architectural
consideration part of it,
you would look at what are the
overlapping pieces, right?
So certain things are partition tolerant
consistent.
And available, available partition.
So you need to look at how the
consistency,
availability and partition tolerance kind
of overlaps with each other and which one
to use at what point of time.
Um.
Hybrid architecture.
This is the modern approach that anybody
is looking at.
If you look at from the leading, you know,
organizations, they, you know,
adopt polyglot persistent strategies
which.
Selects the optimal database for specific
user use cases rather than you know just
going into a single solution.
So it's kind of a mixed hybrid.
We would look at the transactional core
analytical layer,
caching strategy and search and discovery.
So all those.
Would kind of bring your modern approach
of making it more.
You know best way to look at from the
architecture standpoint, what would be,
you know,
database selection strategy in terms of
recommendation and next steps you should
audit.
The current architecture identify the
performance bottleneck scalability with
the existing database infrastructure,
run proof of concepts,
define hybrid strategy,
establish that governance,
and then recommend the approach.
I think that's where the recommendation
comes in.
And that's where the future belongs,
where people can strategically combine
database technologies and rather than
just bidding on one single solution.
Mm.
Amazing.
So that's, you know,
and I'll share the slides,
but I just thought to share quickly this
because nobody was ready and this was
ready with me.
So I just thought I'll share.
Thank you. Thank you, Palash.
I think that's quite helpful.
A very summarized one,
but quite neat and very something that
could be used in actual practical ways
when you're designing a system basically.
That's.
Correct.
Vijay,
maybe you can look at it when we're
designing this,
you know Aramco systems and all it would
be useful to analyze and select.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, sure.
OK, cool.
Thank you Palash.
I think you're lots of new things here,
Yeah.
especially the logistic you mentioned
couple of things CAD, CAM, the new.
Mhm.
I think that is very important to
understand which database suits based on
your architecture.
It is correct statement make or break and
Mm.
that I have seen in my last experience.
Thanks.
Oh.
So we spend like for first data client,
right? You might heard.
So they started one project,
spent three years with DB2,
Yes.
almost 50 resource on site and 100
offshore. After three-year they break it.
They said DB2 will not fit due to X for
the reason.
Then it was like crash everything.
They started from scratch.
Hello.
It it definitely.
Yeah, I'll. I'll share this.
I'll share this with the team.
At least you can put it in the repository.
Oh, yeah.
Makes sense, OK.
Thank you.
For sure.
Oh.
OK, I need to jump on another call,
so I will speak relief.
Sure, sure. No worries, Palash.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks. Have a good one.
OK, Amit,
so far today's agenda like do do you want
to cover anything specific?
Yeah, yeah. So I wanted to just check up,
take up one more point.
I hope you guys have all the tech leads,
especially tech architects.
I'm working with them for their KRAS and
KPIs. Are you guys,
have you guys all got your all your KPIs,
KRAs uploaded in the Darwin?
Box. Do you need any help there?
I think this is specifically for Muzaffar,
Shiv, Praveen and Mayur.
I think the architects, Yusuf,
I think your KR is also there on.
Yes, yes, yes, I'm at it, yeah.
Yeah, Darwin box. OK. And so Praveen,
what about you?
Oh, I have not done yet. Not done yet,
Amit. I'll do it now.
Have you bought your?
OK, OK.
But you are aware that it has to be done,
right? I know what is to be done.
Yes,
I am aware of that and also I got one
e-mail with the training as well if you
want to look at how to do that.
Sure, sure. How about you, Muzaffar?
No.
I said, is that press?
Yeah, yeah,
I attended the training and yeah,
OK.
I will go go through that. Not yet done,
but I will check.
OK, OK, sure, sure. How about you,
Mayur and Shiv?
Uh, yes Sir.
I have attended the training but I'm not
at that part, so I need to get that.
How can you do that?
So I reach that number.
OK, OK.
So go ahead and get that done sooner.
So, Amit, yeah, so, OK, OK.
So like that is a regular KRA that I am
killing with the manager.
That is the only one, right? OK, yes, yes.
Yeah, yeah, it's the same thing. Hey,
same thing, but to be done on Darwin box.
That inbox open, yeah.
Only for architects we are creating new
because there's something called as a 5 +
5 which is based on the scaling of
framework. So I get my 5 to 5.
Mhm.
Similarly we use five to five.
So because everybody's there I think and
I felt this could be useful for you to
understand how.
Things work, you know,
as a technology office, new practices,
Oh.
what happens.
So what I'll do is I did share this
yesterday with I think Kishore, right.
I think Kishore I shared with you.
But like, yeah,
I've shared this with the architect.
Yeah, I am.
M.
I'll just share with everyone here.
So that they get an idea about how things
work. OK, so I'll share my window.
But Amit, we have not done with 5 + 5,
I think we have done the normal under,
Yeah, I know. I think for you, yeah,
for you, because you are,
yeah.
I know completely on Nazam, it may be OK,
but.
But you can also have a look at it.
I know it.
It helps you to also align yourself to,
you know,
what we're doing in the technology
function basically, right.
So now in technology there are what we
call as 5 + 5. So there are 5 priorities,
which is basically what we call as
projects basically and five.
Metrics that we track.
Now that doesn't mean that we only do
those five.
These are the things that are tracked and
reported every week,
every month to the leadership and across
all the functions, right? We do like,
I do like 2025 things,
but out of that only five are very
important where?
It is completely focused on organization
success or the organization road map. OK,
so there are priorities.
So first priority is again this is coming
from both tech and new practices.
So just help.
So if you see I mentioned this priorities
belongs to new practices.
It's about growth of Python practices.
Is using paid campaigns.
So we're doing some Google paid campaigns
where we have to assist and help the
there is a agency that we are hiring to
help them with the content to finalize
the audience, target audience,
the ad copies, the keywords,
the different.
Content and there are also geographical,
you know locations that you need to.
There are a lot of things that you do
that is that is one of the priorities for
me.
Then the tech priority too is pre sales
as pre sales X as we call it.
So there are.
There are some 27 pipeline we were to
close 14 out of them and there is a pre
sales CSAT that happens to the pre sales
team that has to move from 4.25 to 4.5.
So that was the target that was taken.
So that was this is the technology's
priority too.
Then then the new practices priority 3
where we are working on Saudi cloud
strategy and door openers where we have
identified the use cases,
we have to provide the content.
So we did one of the SharePoint migration,
then there's Ms. Fabric,
then there's a cyber security you know
content.
So that all is provided purpose we are
working with cloud partnerships like.
Like with Azure, AWS, Google,
there's a second tier data provider cloud
protocol as V2 and we are working even
partnership with Outsystems, Odoo.
So all that comes under this and the
target is to provide all the use cases or
provide content.
Then the 4th priority is a JPP practice,
Java, Python,
Power BI and how do we grow that from 6
to 10 and achieve a 4.
5 plus rating from all the customers.
This is more Palash is driving that this
as a lead or a head of the practice but.
This is one of the priorities and make
sure that this happens.
Then the priority 5 is growth of
potential customers.
So we've chosen 5 like if you see the
customers, here's SMS, Aramco,
then there is Officer Track,
Excel Queue and there's vector solutions,
all of these we want them to kind of grow
to the next level.
So that is the five priority.
So this is a combination of tech and new
practices. Now that is just a priority.
So these are the things that we have to
report and make sure that it's tracked.
The other is the metrics that means very
the specific level targets and numbers
that we take.
So there are 5 metrics that I've taken so
pre sales.
Sales X is 1 A.
growth of strategic customers focused
best practice improvement,
POC based business growth and GPB growth,
right.
And in that like in presales X closures
and sales is that is the you know target
15 out of 27 and five is the target CSAT.
And this is gets tracked as you see on A.
weekly basis till the end and then growth
of strategic customers,
these are the five ones, officer track,
excel queue.
So we are going good as of now in terms
of these officer track, excel,
the other three are kind of still to get
initiated.
Focus best practices there.
We are working on 10 projects this time
and we're looking at all the best
practices like it starts from agile,
sonar cube, CICD, usability, unit testing,
architectural best practices checklist.
So all that is tracked here to 100%
achievement for these 10 projects.
Projects and when you say 100%,
there is A. target that is taken.
So not every project will get 5 ratings.
So now you maybe some of them were at
3:00. So we take A.
target that in 1/4 will reach to four at
an overall level,
but whatever is the target taken,
they have to achieve it. So that's how we.
Take the target as 100% then POCS.
We worked on five POCS.
We worked with Nazam. There are two POCS.
One was an audit management tool,
the second was RPA using automation
anywhere.
Then there was Omega Care where we did A.
POC for Ms.
Fabric which is successful with Microsoft
funding then Crystal Vision Azure.
IoT POC.
Then the third one we are working on is
CVAS for Edge labs where we are trying to
help them convert the existing legacy
application to A. more modern.
net Blazor kind of setup.
So that's another POC.
So target is you have to implement 5,
present five and at least get one weed
billable.
This is A.
these are good POC that means based on
the POC is the customer likes it and he
wants to continue.
So now that's helping us right.
You know so Omega care is continuing and
we've got one billable developer there
JPB growth.
This is again how do we grow JPB practice
from 13 to 20.
And then CSAT of course to achieve five.
So these are the things that we track.
So this gives you an idea about what it
means by 5 + 5 and similarly so some of
this will overlap with some of the
architects that they will take up because
like if you take an example SMS,
it's going to Vijay who's going to.
Kind of need that architectural part and
supporting that Kishore would be working
Architect.
on unit testing architectural best
practices, right?
Then Ashish is working on again the CICD
part or even focus for that matter.
Dilip is working on A. lot of AI things,
so or like crystal vision Dilip is
handling.
So then similarly it flows down to 5 + 5
for the architects.
So that's how the scaling up framework
works and what we have seen is.
There are A.
lot of when because and the idea is when
we present this to the leadership and all
the functions every week and also on A.
monthly basis,
it increases the cooperation.
I think we did discuss this in the CLC.
I think Tech leads were not there,
but we've seen that the visibility of the
work that we all are doing at.
Because the functions improves and
there's A.
lot of collaboration and support that
happens.
Right. So that's that's all, you know,
I just wanted to kind of let you know so
that you know what's happening as A.
overall progress for whatever you're
doing,
how it actually culminates into
organizational metrices and how the
organization looks at it.
Any any questions or any thoughts or any
recommendations from your side?
You feel that? OK,
I think why not we look at this kind of A.
metrics? Any any suggestions for that?
One Amit,
just one thing right now Palash mentioned
Yeah.
about the database time.
Can we have a means across all the
Hmm.
project checks?
What are the existing data types and
Right, very nice.
propose any new data?
Sure. So yeah,
I think it could be included as part of
our architecture best practices checklist.
So Kishore, maybe we can add it there.
Yeah.
Sure I'll.
That was A. good point Vijay.
Though Vijay, just to kind of mention,
there's one database performance related
checklist that we have which is created
by our database practice team,
Mayur Ambani and his team.
OK, OK.
And that we use for some of the we've not
taken it this quarter up,
but that's something that we have we've I
think once we've done it for all the
projects across the board,
I think maybe two quarters back,
OK.
but maybe the architectural best
practices checklist can have another
point as A. database.
And in fact, right, that's A.
very good point Vijay.
Sure, I'll check that to check this. Yep.
And in fact another thing just to mention
to you again, we can have questions,
but because this happened yesterday,
our marketing team is trying to launch A.
Yeah.
campaign where they are using our 25
years completion.
With A.
offer to our customers like you know
retargeting, it's called as A.
retargeting or remarketing campaign where
for last 25 years whoever customers,
prospects or anybody in the industry has
connected with us on LinkedIn.
They are doing A.
remarketing or retargeting campaign where.
Mm.
We are sending them that something about
25 years.
So like one of the things that we
discussed is why could why not we do 25
point checklist for architectural best
practices right for your 25 years so and
that we can do it free of cost we can do
A. 25 then I spoke about 25 pointer.
Mm.
Checklist for Dev SEC OPS like DSOM
Ashish. OK then then there is A.
Oh.
cost optimization,
cloud cost optimization 25 pointer
Means.
checklist.
So I think that's kind of how we're
thinking.
So Kishore and maybe Ashish in the cloud
M.
practice we can take this up.
Kishore you can take it up key
architecture best practice may now we
have.
Sure.
I think we already have 25 points to home
game,
We we have the category, yes.
but why not use 25 pointers and keep that
ready? OK, same Ashish, this all maybe up.
Noted.
I think you have created A. new one.
This one I have seen and that's good.
Yeah.
So you can convert that into 25 pointer,
just expand it A.
bit and same with the cost optimization.
So we're thinking of launching that
campaign. We will go to all.
The other connects that we have and we
say OK,
we can do it for you free of cost like 25
pointer checklist for best best practices,
OK.
25 pointer checklist for cloud dev SEC
OPS and maturity and 25 pointers for cost
optimization.
So that's one thing that has come out now.
So I mean because you mentioned Vijay
that came out so.
Let's let's take that up.
Sure, OK, maybe.
Yes, Amit.
OK. Apart from that,
any other questions on the the 5 + 5 or
how we're looking at our metrics?
Yeah, Amit, the DevSecOps,
now we have tried to convert it into
cloud automation and security checklist.
So title's different because we wanted to
Yes.
embed the automation part as well.
So maybe that can be part of other 25
checklists, which are 25 points.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Yeah,
we can do that.
Automation. Automation.
Then I thought I'll just mention it to
you because you know it came like I was
gonna have A. meeting tomorrow anyway,
but thought I'll just mention it to you.
Yes.
Anything else?
Yeah, noted. So just one thing Vijay,
maybe on Friday we can connect on all
this. We already have a database section,
but then any which way like we wanted to
kind of have a third iteration on the
architecture best practices she's sheet
that we have.
Hmm.
So maybe on Friday we can connect and
then we wanted to have a bit more
OK.
Yeah, sure, sure.
bifurcation depending upon the like last
two quarters I would say almost like 20
projects we have covered.
So there is a bit of a summary thing that
is also that we wanted.
This is the second iteration that we are
having.
So in 3rd edition we can do that exercise
on Friday.
I think we we have our that so there we
can have a bit of a brainstorming on that.
Mhm.
Sure, sure. We can. We'll connect. Yeah,
we'll connect.
Makes sense.
Yeah, sure. Yes, yes, yes.
OK.
Yes.
E.
Great.
Yeah.
If there are no questions,
then maybe we can.
We can leave the meetings now. OK, cool.
Thank you. Great. All the best guys.
True.
Yes.
OK. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everybody.
OK. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks all.
Thanks all.
Thanks. Thanks. Thank you for your time.
Have a great day. Yeah.
Take care. Bye. Bye. Thanks.